some people are screaming about pigeon
has a food because we make the mistake
of thinking these dirty little buggers
are the ones you eat
but out-of-town is a different species
and a different pest
woodpigeon are rich gamey and delicious
but it's because they gorge themselves a
means of pounds worth of crops a year so
to help farmers who should be eating as
many as possible
I mean Essex to learn how to shoot these
birds properly with a help of pigeon big
gun Gary Greene where'd you shoot it are
we looking for the head good head couid
on this Boulder me not a nice clean kill
leg passes through the bird nothing
worse than the pigeon breast and you got
these little small blue barons now
that's right and it is his crop
protection is what we're doing I'm doing
it for food yeah I'm starving yeah
pigeon are one of the tastiest birds to
eat but one of the trick is to shoot so
I opted for something as fast agile and
unpredictable as they are to practice
with
now bring a little bit [ __ ] closer
these remote control planes will mimic
the pigeons movement and if they don't
explode I'm a [ __ ] shot [ __ ] pigeons
at half our size track the bird tractor
would move off and fire
Oh direct hit that one
with my shooting skills improves I put
the fact that these planes were much
bigger than the size of wood pigeon to
the back of my mind
she's what I'm truly done right now for
the pigeons yeah excellent thank you
very much
plaid yeah thank you that's good
practice we're heading to a rape field
that should be in full yellow blossom
but it's been eating away and if it
isn't protected soon it will be gone
completely
Gary's laid out decoys to convince
passing birds it's safe to land and
that's gonna check them over yeah sure
is sure we can get them from [ __ ]
Coronation Street look at them ah stuck
on the wall and it's crucial they don't
see us first
are you [ __ ] real seriously
seriously all jokes apart I mean we need
this [ __ ] thing you will do we're
talking about a pigeon yeah yeah but we
want about 25 yards this is what we've
got to do it seriously I'm gonna say
that's it
are you taking the piss outta me or what
seriously don't this is it this is it
I've got mine here go on a half a fox I
will get arrested oh yeah that's it
that's it we're ready to show
all we had to do was wait
[ __ ]
you're not expected to do well straight
off it takes a while he said actually
came up to me set the finger up shot on
my head and then trucked off the pigeons
were lightning fast and Nick Simon was
getting the better of me [ __ ] but there
were plenty of birds look at that love
for you and I had plenty of cartridges
how about this one
safety off shoot and again yes lovely
shot well done well done the highlight
Jesus on your third shot well done Brock
the dog is used to find the birds
quickly and prevent further damage to
the crop yeah that's your bird sir your
very first alarm but Columbus about time
now well done [ __ ]
I'm not shotgun back hundreds of pigeons
a day like this many of which are
exported to the continent been into it
now and yeah yeah we're pigeon is very
popular with Gary's help I shot three in
around three hours and they weren't
going anywhere
well done uncle white rice right yeah a
lot more difficult than you think you
know that oh yeah I knew is gonna be
tough I didn't quite fingers in with
that [ __ ] hot in the kitchen I'll
pluck the pigeons first but Gary has a
method I've never seen before
see not plucking them no no no it's too
messy right and takes too long yeah so
I'm just gonna dislocate the wings yeah
Ruby and just roll it out so Daddy how
and no mess
yeah no feathers everywhere so disick
ate the suggestion to play it and wind
it off and then break out right-handed
sir no yep I'm just picking off their
skin right off Jesus right on Christ am
I so much quicker a lot easier to cook
with as rye another okay rich that is oh
very lean yeah lean healthy and [ __ ]
delicious
Gary's taught me how to shoot and pluck
them now I'm gonna show him a delicious
way to cook his pigeons they're really
nice salad of pigeon black pudding yeah
and pancetta cut through the wishbone
which makes it easier to remove the
pigeon breast nice thing about pigeon
it's slightly gamey
not too strong but bloody delicious
that's what I want then a really nice
thin marbling of the fat in there
marinating salt pepper and olive oil to
keep the pigeon tender whilst them
waiting cut up the pancetta it's a nice
sort of Collins
place the marinated breasts in a hot pan
beautiful and Leslie one minute each
side whilst pigeon rest fry the pancetta
in the same pan
I'm chattering so make a very very quick
dressing I'm making a dressing with
olive oil and sherry vinegar the show
really gives a really nice tart exciting
flavor add salt pepper and lemon juice
there's a little tablespoon of the
vinaigrette so the pitchers start to
cool down as orbs a really nice sherry
vinegar and this is where we get the
black pudding the black pudding gives it
a bit of a spice crumble into the bacon
that is a chef's dream I was fantastic
deglaze the pan with sherry vinegar
gives a really nice sort of vibrant
flavor drain it through a sieve onto a
plate that is fit for a king dress the
watercress rocket and frise salad and
add the black pudding and pancetta mix
that three colors are extraordinary but
the real star is the pigeon that I never
thought an Essex bird could be so
[ __ ] tasty pigeon on touch of
vinaigrette off the government matter
here Thank You psyche in nice crispy
bacon and a really nice pink pigeon I
love your way of eating black pudding as
well mmm
in a salad crispy fried and the bacon
Salinger Street I can clearly cook but I
can't [ __ ] shoot you know
the fill it is so versatile easy faster
cook and great for pan frying smoked
salmon delicious cooked or raw